@node GDL Input Formats 
@chapter GDL Input Formats 

@section Plain text input format 



@section IGES input format 

In GDL a IGES file is imported using a build-in object.This object will reflect 
the contents of an IGES file containing points, curves, surfaces, and/or breps 
(including trimmed surfaces) as sequences of GDL objects. The HarmonyWare reader 
creates a log file in a temporary directory. The location of this log file is 
printed on the console during the reading operation. Currently this log file is 
not automatically deleted, and its name is determined by the system.

????example to be added???

@b{Input Slots (required)}

@i{file-name} string or pathname. The location of the IGES file to be read.



@b{Input Slots (optional)}

break-up-breps-into-trimmed-surfaces? boolean   

If true, treat all B-reps in the file as if they are collections of trimmed surfaces. This loses all B-rep connectivity 
contained in the file. Its use is not recommended. Default is nil.


group-trimmed-surfaces-into-brep? boolean       

If true, group all trimmed surfaces in the file into one B-rep. If some trimmed surfaces are blanked, they are grouped 
into a second, blanked B-rep. Default is nil.


make-all-surfaces-trimmed? boolean      

If true, treat all untrimmed surfaces in the file as if they are trimmed surfaces with the natural outer boundary of 
the surface as the trimming loop. If used, no standalone IwSurface surface objects will ever be returned by the reader. 
Default is nil.


make-single-brep? boolean       

If true, group all trimmed surfaces and B-reps in the file into one B-rep. If some trimmed surfaces or B-reps are 
blanked, they are grouped into a second, blanked B-rep. Default is nil.


sew-brep-faces? boolean 

Indicates whether each resulting brep should have its faces sewn together. Default is (the make-single-brep?).



Objects (sequence)

breps sequence of gdl brep objects      

The breps and trimmed surfaces (represented as breps) found in the IGES file.


curves sequence of gdl curve objects    

The curves found in the IGES file.


points sequence of gdl point objects    

The points found in the IGES file.


surfaces sequence of gdl surface objects        

The untrimmed ``standalone'' surfaces found in the IGES file. 

@subsection 
