@subsubsection B-spline-curve

@b{Description}

A general NURBS (potentially non-Uniform, potentially Rational, b-spline) 
curve specified with control points, weights, knots, and degree.

If the knot-vector is different from the default, it is non-Uniform.

If any of the weights are different from 1.0, it is Rational.

@noindent @b{Required-input-slots}

@b{:control-points}

@itemize {}

 @item List of 3D Points. The control points.

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Optional-input-slots}

@b{:degree}

@itemize {}

 @item Integer. Degree of the curve. Defaults to 3 (cubic).

@end itemize

@b{:knot-vector}

@itemize {}

 @item List of Numbers. Knots of the curve. Default is NIL, which indicates a uniform knot vector.

@end itemize

@b{:weights}

@itemize {}

 @item List of numbers. A weight to match each control point. Should be same length as control-points.
 Default is a value of 1.0 for each weight, resulting in a nonrational curve.

@end itemize



@noindent @b{Examples}

@smallexample 
@cartouche

 (in-package :surf)

 (define-object test-b-spline-curves (base-object)

  :input-slots
  ((control-points (list (make-point 0 0 0)
                         (make-point 2 3.0 0.0) 
                         (make-point 4 2.0 0.0) 
                         (make-point 5 0.0 0.0) 
                         (make-point 4 -2.0 0.0) 
                         (make-point 2 -3.0 0.0) 
                         (make-point 0 0 0))))
  
  :objects
  ((curves :type 'b-spline-curve
           :sequence (:size 6)
           :control-points (the control-points)
           :degree (1+ (the-child :index))
           :display-controls (list :line-thickness (* 0.3 (the-child index))
                                   :color (ecase (the-child index)
                                            (0 :red) (1 :orange) (2 :yellow) (3 :green)
                                            (4 :blue) (5 :red-violet))))

   (points :type 'point 
           :sequence (:size (length (rest (the control-points))))
           :center (nth (the-child index) (rest (the control-points)))
           :display-controls (list :color :green))))


  (generate-sample-drawing :object-roots (make-object 'test-b-spline-curves))


  ;; Here is another example which shows the difference between a
  ;; simple bezier-curve from the :geom-base package, and a NURBS.
  ;; 
  (define-object bezier-and-nurbs (base-object)
  
    :input-slots ((control-points (list (make-point 0 0 0)
                                        (make-point 1 1 0)
                                        (make-point 2 1 0)
                                        (make-point 3 0 0))))
  
  
    :objects ((points :type 'points-display 
                      :points (the control-points))
            
            
              (bezier :type 'bezier-curve  ;; This will be a geom-base:bezier-curve
                      :display-controls (list :color :green)
                      :control-points (the control-points))
            
              (b-spline :type 'b-spline-curve ;; This will be an equivalent surf:b-spline-curve.
                        :display-controls (list :color :red :bezier-points t)
                        :control-points (the bezier control-points))

              ;;
              ;; The b-spline-curve is a full NURBS curve and so has
              ;; more inputs than a simple bezier-curve: degree,
              ;; weights, and knot-vector, so we can do things like:
              ;;
              (b-spline-weighted :type 'b-spline-curve
                                 :display-controls (list :color :purple)
                                 :control-points (the bezier control-points)
                                 :weights (list 1.0 1.2 1.2 1.0))
            
              (b-spline-degree-2 :type 'b-spline-curve
                                 :display-controls (list :color :orange)
                                 :control-points (the bezier control-points)
                                 :degree 2)))

@end cartouche 
@end smallexample



 @b{Example image is not generated!}

