@subsubsection Basic-surface

@b{Description}

This routine constructs a 3D surface by interpolating
   a set of four boundary 3D curves.

@noindent @b{Required-input-slots}

@b{:curve-bottom}

@itemize {}

 @item GDL curve object. The curve corresponding to the surface bottom boundary .

@end itemize

@b{:curve-left}

@itemize {}

 @item GDL curve object. The curve corresponding to the surface left boundary.

@end itemize

@b{:curve-right}

@itemize {}

 @item GDL curve object. The curve corresponding to the surface right boundary.

@end itemize

@b{:curve-top}

@itemize {}

 @item GDL curve object. The curve corresponding to the surface top boundary.

@end itemize







@noindent @b{Examples}


    @smallexample 
@cartouche
 
 (in-package :gdl-user)   

 (define-object test-basic-surface (base-object)
  
  :computed-slots
  ((control-points-u-min (list (make-point 0 0 0 )
                               (make-point 1 0 0 )
                               (make-point 2 0 1 )
                               (make-point 3 0 0 )
                               (make-point 4 0 0 )))
   
   (control-points-u-max (list (make-point 0 4 0 )
                               (make-point 1 4 0 )
                               (make-point 2 4 1 )
                               (make-point 3 4 0 )
                               (make-point 4 4 0 )))
   
   (control-points-v-min (list (make-point 0 0 0 )
                               (make-point 0 1 0 )
                               (make-point 0 2 1 )
                               (make-point 0 3 0 )
                               (make-point 0 4 0 )))
                              
   (control-points-v-max (list (make-point 4 0 0 )
                               (make-point 4 1 0 )
                               (make-point 4 2 1 )
                               (make-point 4 3 0 )
                               (make-point 4 4 0 ))))
  
  :objects
  ((surf-curve-u-min :type 'fitted-curve
                     :display-controls (list :color :green :line-thickness 2)
                     :points (the control-points-u-min))
   
   (surf-curve-u-max :type 'fitted-curve
                     :display-controls (list :color :green :line-thickness 2)
                     :points (the control-points-u-max))
     
   (surf-curve-v-min :type 'fitted-curve
                     :display-controls (list :color :blue :line-thickness 2)
                     :points (the control-points-v-min))
   
   (surf-curve-v-max :type 'fitted-curve
                     :display-controls (list :color :blue :line-thickness 2)
                     :points (the control-points-v-max))
      
   (surface :type 'basic-surface
            :display-controls (list :color :red :line-thickness 0.5)
            :curve-bottom (the surf-curve-u-min)
            :curve-top (the surf-curve-u-max)
            :curve-left (the surf-curve-v-min)
            :curve-right (the surf-curve-v-max))

   (arc-1 :type 'arc-curve
          :display-controls (list :color :green :line-thickness 2)
          :orientation (alignment :top (the (face-normal-vector :rear)))
          :center (make-point 1 0 0)
          :radius 1
          :start-angle 0
          :end-angle pi)
 
   (arc-2 :type 'arc-curve
          :display-controls (list :color :green :line-thickness 2)
          :orientation (alignment :top (the (face-normal-vector :rear)))
          :center (make-point 1 -2 0)
          :radius 1
          :start-angle 0
          :end-angle pi)
   
   (arc-3 :type 'arc-curve
          :orientation (alignment :rear (the (face-normal-vector :right)))
          :display-controls (list :color :blue :line-thickness 2)
          :center (make-point 0 -1 0)
          :radius 1
          :start-angle 0
          :end-angle pi)
   
   (arc-4 :type 'arc-curve
          :orientation (alignment :rear (the (face-normal-vector :left)))
          :display-controls (list :color :blue :line-thickness 2)
          :center (make-point 2 -1 0)
          :radius 1
          :start-angle 0
          :end-angle pi)
   
  (surf-arc :type 'basic-surface
            :display-controls (list :color :red :line-thickness 0.5) 
            :curve-bottom (the arc-1 )
            :curve-top (the arc-2 )
            :curve-left (the arc-3 reverse )
            :curve-right (the arc-4))))



 (generate-sample-drawing :objects (the-object (make-object 'test-basic-surface) surface)
                          :projection-direction (getf *standard-views* :tri-r-r))


@end cartouche 
@end smallexample



 @b{Example image is not generated!}

