@subsubsection Brep

@b{Description}

A general superclass for all boundary representation geometric entities. 
This currently follows the smlib topology model, with breps containing regions, regions containing shells, 
and shells containing faces and edges. Shells which completely enclose a volume are considered 
to make up a solid brep.

@noindent @b{Optional-input-slots}

@b{:brep-tolerance}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Overall tolerance for the created brep solid. Defaults to nil.
Note that a value of nil indicates for SMLib to use value of 1.0e-05 of the
longest diagonal length of the brep.

@end itemize

@b{:built-from}

@itemize {}

 @item GDL Brep object. Defaults to nil.
Specify this if you want this brep to be a clone of an existing brep. (note -
this uses a shared underlying brep object, it does not make a copy)

@end itemize

@b{:face-brep-colors}

@itemize {}

 @item List of Color Keywords. These indicate the colors 
for the breps produced by (the face-breps). If the 
number of face-breps exceeds the length of this list, 
the colors will be repeated in order. 
Defaults to a list with keys: 
 @itemize 
  @item  :green 
  @item  :red 
  @item  :blue 
  @item  :purple-dark 
  @item  :violet 
  @item  :cyan. 

@end itemize 



@end itemize

@b{:tessellation-parameters}

@itemize {}

 @item Plist of keyword symbols and numbers. This controls tessellation for this brep.
The keys are as follows:
 @itemize 
           @item :min-number-of-segments
           @item :max-3d-edge-factor
           @item :min-parametric-ratio
           @item :max-chord-height
           @item :max-angle-degrees
           @item :min-3d-edge
           @item :min-edge-ratio-uv
           @item :max-aspect-ratio

@end itemize 



and the defaults come from the following parameters:

 

 (list :min-number-of-segments *tess-min-number-of-segments*
       :max-3d-edge-factor *tess-max-3d-edge-factor*
       :min-parametric-ratio *tess-min-parametric-ratio*
       :max-chord-height *tess-max-chord-height*
       :max-angle-degrees *tess-max-angle-degrees*
       :min-3d-edge *tess-min-3d-edge*
       :min-edge-ratio-uv *tess-min-edge-ratio-uv*
       :max-aspect-ratio *tess-max-aspect-ratio*)

 



@end itemize

@noindent @b{Settable-optional-input-slots}

@b{:density}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. The density per unit volume of the brep. Defaults to 1

@end itemize

@b{:display-iso-curves-wireframe?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. Determines whether the isoparametric curves of each face of the brep are used for wireframe display.
The default is T.

@end itemize

@b{:display-tessellation-lines-wireframe?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. Determines whether the tessellation grid-lines of the brep are used for wireframe display.
The default is NIL.

@end itemize

@b{:max-3d-edge}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Used for tessellations. Computed from (the max-extent) and (the max-3d-edge-factor).

WARNING: Modify this value at your peril. Small values can cause intractable tessellations. 
         It is better to tweak max-3d-edge-factor to a small value like 0.1, as this will
         be taken relative to the max-extent of the brep.

@end itemize

@b{:max-3d-edge-factor}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Used for tessellations. Default comes from (the tessellation-parameters).

@end itemize

@b{:max-angle-degrees}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Used for tessellations. Default comes from (the tessellation-parameters).

@end itemize

@b{:max-aspect-ratio}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Used for tessellations. Default comes from (the tessellation-parameters).

@end itemize

@b{:max-chord-height}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Used for tessellations. Default comes from (the tessellation-parameters).

@end itemize

@b{:min-3d-edge}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Used for tessellations. Default comes from (the tessellation-parameters).

@end itemize

@b{:min-edge-ratio-uv}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Used for tessellations. Default comes from (the tessellation-parameters).

@end itemize

@b{:min-number-of-segments}

@itemize {}

 @item Integer. Used for tessellations. Default comes from (the tessellation-parameters).

@end itemize

@b{:min-parametric-ratio}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Used for tessellations. Default comes from (the tessellation-parameters).

@end itemize

@b{:poly-brep-smooth-results?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. Smooth results for poly-brep? Defaults to t.

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Settable-defaulted-input-slots}

@b{:isos}

@itemize {}

 @item Plist with keys :n-u and :n-v. The number of isoparametric curves to be displayed in each direction. 
This value comes from the value of :isos on the display-controls if that exists, and defaults 
to *isos-default* otherwise.

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Computed-slots}

@b{:adaptive-tolerance}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. This is the actual tolerance stored in the SMLib object.

@end itemize

@b{:bounding-box}

@itemize {}

 @item List of two 3D points. The left front bottom and right rear top corners, in global coordinates,
of the rectangular volume bounding the tree of geometric objects rooted at this object.

@end itemize

@b{:local-box}

@itemize {}

 @item List of two 3D points. The left front bottom and right rear top corners, in global coordinates,
of the rectangular volume bounding this geometric object.

@end itemize

@b{:min-max-x-y-z}

@itemize {}

 @item Plist with :min-x :max-x :min-y :max-y :min-z :max-z. Returns the extreme points of the 
brep in each direction (on the brep itself, not necessarily on the bounding box).

@end itemize

@b{:triangle-data}

@itemize {}

 @item List of Plists, one for each face, format still being determined. 
Contains triangle and connectivity data for the tessellation
of this brep. Exact supported format will be documented here when ready.

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Hidden-objects}

@b{:composed-edges}

@itemize {}

 @item The composed edges contained within this brep, this is valid just if the brep does not contain holes

@end itemize

@b{:edges-sequence}

@itemize {}

 @item Sequence of GDL Edge Objects. The Edges contained within this brep aranged clockwise or anticlockwise, 
this is valid just if the brep does not contain holes

@end itemize

@b{:poly-brep}

@itemize {}

 @item Polygonal Brep Object. This brep represented as a Polygonal Brep

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Quantified-hidden-objects}

@b{:edges}

@itemize {}

 @item Sequence of GDL Edge Objects. The Edges contained within this brep.

@end itemize

@b{:face-breps}

@itemize {}

 @item Sequence of GDL Brep objects. One brep for each face in the parent brep, containing only that face.

@end itemize

@b{:faces}

@itemize {}

 @item Sequence of GDL Face Objects. The Faces contained within this brep.

@end itemize

@b{:regions}

@itemize {}

 @item Sequence of GDL Region Objects. The Regions contained within this brep.

@end itemize

@b{:shells}

@itemize {}

 @item Sequence of GDL Shell Objects. The Shells contained within this brep.

@end itemize

@b{:vertices}

@itemize {}

 @item Sequence of GDL Vertex Objects. The Vertices contained within this brep.

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Functions}

@b{:area}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Area covered by the faces of the brep.
:&key ((tolerance (the adaptive-tolerance)) "Controls how precisely the properties are computed")

@end itemize

@b{:area-moments-of-inertia}

@itemize {}

 @item 3D Vector (i.e. 3D Point). Returns the Area Moments of Inertia of the brep.
:&key ((tolerance (the adaptive-tolerance)) "Controls how precisely the properties are computed")

@end itemize

@b{:area-products-of-inertia}

@itemize {}

 @item 3D Vector (i.e. 3D Point). Returns the Area Products of Inertia of the brep.
:&key ((tolerance (the adaptive-tolerance)) "Controls how precisely the properties are computed")

@end itemize

@b{:area-second-moment-about-coordinate-axii}

@itemize {}

 @item 3D Vector (i.e. 3D Point). Returns the Area Second Moment About Coordinate Axii of the brep.
:&key ((tolerance (the adaptive-tolerance)) "Controls how precisely the properties are computed")

@end itemize

@b{:area-static-moments}

@itemize {}

 @item 3D Vector (i.e. 3D Point). Returns the Area Static Moments of the brep.
:&key ((tolerance (the adaptive-tolerance)) "Controls how precisely the properties are computed")

@end itemize

@b{:brep-intersect?}

@itemize {}

 @item Value nil or t. This function performs an intersection between this brep and another brep.
The function returns a NIL value if no intersection is found and T if a intersection is found.
:arguments (other-brep "GDL Brep. The brep with which to intersect.")
:&key ((tolerance (the adaptive-tolerance)) "Number, Controls how precisely the intersection is computed."
       (angle-tolerance (radians-to-degrees *angle-tolerance-radians-default*))  "Number, in radians. The angle tolerance for intersection.")

@end itemize

@b{:center-of-gravity}

@itemize {}

 @item 3D Point. Center of gravity of the mass of the brep.
:&key ((tolerance (the adaptive-tolerance)) "Controls how precisely the properties are computed")

@end itemize

@b{:in?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. Returns t or nil depending on whether the point given is within the boundary of the brep (including faces).

:arguments (point "Point to check for")

@end itemize

@b{:mass}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Mass represented by the brep, according to the density.
:&key ((tolerance (the adaptive-tolerance)) "Controls how precisely the properties are computed")

@end itemize

@b{:moments}

@itemize {}

 @item Plist. Returns the moments of the brep. The plist contains keys: :area-static-moments, :area-moments-of-inertia, 
:area-products-of-inertia, :area-second-moment-about-coordinate-axii, :volume-static-moments, 
:volume-moments-of-inertia, :volume-products-of-inertia, and  :volume-second-moment-about-coordinate-axii.

:&key ((tolerance (the adaptive-tolerance)) "Controls how precisely the properties are computed")

@end itemize

@b{:precise-properties}

@itemize {}

 @item Multiple values: Number, Number, Number, and Plist. Returns the area, volume, mass, 
and moments for the brep. The moments are labeled as: :area-static-moments, :area-moments-of-inertia, 
:area-products-of-inertia, :area-second-moment-about-coordinate-axii, :volume-static-moments, 
:volume-moments-of-inertia, :volume-products-of-inertia, and  :volume-second-moment-about-coordinate-axii.

:&key ((tolerance (the adaptive-tolerance)) "Controls how precisely the properties are computed")

@end itemize

@b{:tessellation}

@itemize {}

 @item Plist or list. Contains tessellation data for the brep
based on the values of the keyword args. This is used to produce
the value of (the triangle-data).

:&key ((min-number-of-segments (the min-number-of-segments)) ""
       (max-3d-edge (the max-3d-edge)) ""
       (min-parametric-ratio (the min-parametric-ratio)) ""
       (max-chord-height (the max-chord-height)) ""
       (max-angle-degrees (the max-angle-degrees)) ""
       (min-3d-edge (the min-3d-edge)) ""
       (min-edge-ratio-uv (the min-edge-ratio-uv)) ""
       (max-aspect-ratio (the max-aspect-ratio)) ""
       (in-memory? t) "")

@end itemize

@b{:volume}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Volume enclosed by the brep.
:&key ((tolerance (the adaptive-tolerance)) "Controls how precisely the properties are computed")

@end itemize

@b{:volume-moments-of-inertia}

@itemize {}

 @item 3D Vector (i.e. 3D Point). Returns the Volume Moments of Inertia of the brep.
:&key ((tolerance (the adaptive-tolerance)) "Controls how precisely the properties are computed")

@end itemize

@b{:volume-products-of-inertia}

@itemize {}

 @item 3D Vector (i.e. 3D Point). Returns the Volume Products of Inertia of the brep.
:&key ((tolerance (the adaptive-tolerance)) "Controls how precisely the properties are computed")

@end itemize

@b{:volume-second-moment-about-coordinate-axii}

@itemize {}

 @item 3D Vector (i.e. 3D Point). Returns the Volume Second Moment about Coordinate Axii of the brep.
:&key ((tolerance (the adaptive-tolerance)) "Controls how precisely the properties are computed")

@end itemize

@b{:volume-static-moments}

@itemize {}

 @item 3D Vector (i.e. 3D Point). Returns the Volume Static Moments of the brep.
:&key ((tolerance (the adaptive-tolerance)) "Controls how precisely the properties are computed")

@end itemize







 @b{Example image is not generated!}

