@subsubsection Dropped-curve

@b{Description}

Creates a 3D curve which is the @i{curve-in} dropped normally to the @i{surface.}.
The resulting 3D curve contains a uv-curve which is typically useful for trimming.


NOTE: Change from 1577p027 and forward -- the dropped curve now is a 3D curve which 
can be drawn. It contains its uv representation on the surface. Previously, the uv-curve
was the actual dropped-curve.




@noindent @b{Required-input-slots}

@b{:curve-in}

@itemize {}

 @item GDL NURBS Curve. The curve to be dropped to the surface.

@end itemize

@b{:surface}

@itemize {}

 @item GDL NURBS Surface. The surface on which the curve-in is to be dropped.

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Computed-slots}

@b{:built-from}

@itemize {}

 @item GDL Curve. Specify this if you want this curve to be a clone of an existing curve. (note - this uses a shared underlying 
curve object, it does not make a copy)

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Hidden-objects}

@b{:uv-curve}

@itemize {}

 @item GDL Curve object. The corresponding UV curve for the primary surface on which this curve lies, if any. If
this is not a surface-curve, this will return an error.

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Examples}

@smallexample 
@cartouche
                  
 (in-package :surf)

 (define-object test-trimmed-from-dropped-2 (trimmed-surface)

   :computed-slots
   ((uv-inputs t)
    (holes (list (the hole uv-curve)))
    (island (the island-3d uv-curve))
    (reverse-island? t) (reverse-holes? t)
    (display-controls (list :color :blue :line-thickness 2)))
  
   :hidden-objects
   ((basis-surface :type 'test-fitted-surface
                   :display-controls (list :color :grey-light-very)
                   :grid-length 10 :grid-width 10 :grid-height 5)
   
    (island-3d :type 'dropped-curve
               :curve-in (the raised-island)
               :surface (the basis-surface))
   
    (hole :type 'dropped-curve
          :curve-in (the raised-hole)
          :surface (the basis-surface))
   
    (raised-hole :type 'b-spline-curve
                 :display-controls (list :color :grey-light-very)
                 :control-points (list (make-point 3.5 4.5 7) (make-point 4.5 6 7) (make-point 5.5 7 7) 
                                       (make-point 6 4.5 7) (make-point 5.5 2 7) (make-point 4.5 2 7) 
                                       (make-point 3.5 4.5 7)))
   
    (raised-island :type 'b-spline-curve
                   :display-controls (list :color :grey-light-very)
                   :control-points (list (make-point 3 5 7) (make-point 5 8 7) (make-point 7 10 7) 
                                         (make-point 8 5 7) (make-point 7 0 7) (make-point 5 0 7) 
                                         (make-point 3 5 7)))))



  (generate-sample-drawing :objects (let ((self (make-object 'test-trimmed-from-dropped-2)))
                                       (list (the basis-surface) self (the raised-hole) (the raised-island)))

                           :projection-direction :trimetric)

 
@end cartouche 
@end smallexample



 @b{Example image is not generated!}

