@subsubsection Extended-curve

@b{Description}

Creates an extended curve extending its start or end  (@i{u1} and @i{u2}).

@noindent @b{Required-input-slots}

@b{:curve-in}

@itemize {}

 @item GDL Curve Object. The underlying curve from which to build this curve.

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Optional-input-slots}

@b{:continuity}

@itemize {}

 @item Keyword. Specified the extention continuity. If :g1 the curve is extended  by a linear segment. Curve-in is at least G1(possibly C1) 
    where the extension joins the original curve. If :g2 the curve is extended by reflection,  yielding a G2 continuous extension. 
    If :cmax  the extension yields infinite(C) continuity at the join point(no knot there). Defaults to the :g2.

@end itemize

@b{:distance}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Specified the distance to which the curve is extended.

@end itemize

@b{:distance-type}

@itemize {}

 @item Keyword. Specified if the distance is an absolute distance :absolute or the distance is scaled by the curve's arc length
     to yield the desired extension distance :relative. Defaults to the :absolute.

@end itemize

@b{:extending-from}

@itemize {}

 @item Keyword. Specified from which end the curve to be extended. If :start the curve is extended back from  its  start point.
    If :end the the curve is extended forward from its end point. Defaults to the :start.

@end itemize



@noindent @b{Examples}

@smallexample
  
 (in-package :gdl-user)

 (define-object test-extended-curve ()

   :objects
   ((b-spline-curve :type 'b-spline-curve
                    :display-controls (list :color :black :line-thickness 3.0)
                    :control-points (list (make-point -2.0 0.0 0.0)
                                          (make-point  0.0 1.0 0.0) 
                                          (make-point  1.0 0.0 0.0) 
                                          (make-point  0.0 -1.0 0.0))) 
                                           
    
    (extended-curve-G1 :type 'extended-curve
                       :curve-in (the b-spline-curve)
                       :distance 2.5
                       :distance-type :absolute
                       :extending-from :start
                       :continuity :g1
                       :display-controls (list :color :red))
    
    (extended-curve-G2 :type 'extended-curve
                       :curve-in (the b-spline-curve)
                       :distance 2.5
                       :distance-type :absolute
                       :extending-from :start
                       :continuity :g2
                       :display-controls (list :color :green))
    
    (extended-curve-Cmax :type 'extended-curve
                         :curve-in (the b-spline-curve)
                         :distance 2.5
                         :distance-type :absolute
                         :extending-from :start
                         :continuity :cmax
                         :display-controls (list :color :blue))))

 (generate-sample-drawing :object-roots (make-object 'test-extended-curve))

   @end smallexample



 @b{Example image is not generated!}

