@subsubsection Fitted-curve

@b{Description}

Fits a curve through a set of points with given degree 
and parameterization.

@noindent @b{Required-input-slots}

@b{:points}

@itemize {}

 @item List of 3D Points. The points for fitting.

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Optional-input-slots}

@b{:degree}

@itemize {}

 @item Integer. The desired degree of the resultant curve. Default is 3, unless there are fewer than four control point given,
in which case it one less than the number of control points.

@end itemize

@b{:interpolant?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. Indicates whether the curve will interpolate the points. Defaults to T .

@end itemize

@b{:parameterization}

@itemize {}

 @item Keyword symbol, one of :uniform, :chord-length, :centripetal. The parameterization to use in the resultant curve. 
Default is :centripetal. Note that the NLib documentation states that when specifying vectors and a vector-type of :tangents
or :first-last, :chord-length is a recommended value for parameterization. If vectors are used and the vector-type 
is :normals, this input has no effect. The default is :chord-length

@end itemize

@b{:tolerance}

@itemize {}

 @item Number or nil. The allowed tolerance for doing data reduction after the initial fitting. 
A nil value indicates that no data reduction is to be attempted. Defaults to nil.

@end itemize

@b{:vector-type}

@itemize {}

 @item Keyword symbol, one of :tangents, :normals, or :first-last. :Tangents indicates that the :vectors specify
a tangent vector at each point (there should be one vector for each point), 
:normals indicates that the :vectors specify a normal vector at each 
point (there should be one vector for each point), and 
:first-last indicates that the :vectors specify the starting and ending 
tangent (in this case there should be two vectors in the :vectors list. Default is :tangents.)

@end itemize

@b{:vectors}

@itemize {}

 @item List of 3D Vectors. Optional list of vectors used to influence the fitting. Default is NIL.

@end itemize





@noindent @b{Examples}

@smallexample 
@cartouche
 (in-package :surf)

 (define-object test-fitted-curve (fitted-curve) 
  
   :computed-slots
   ((points (the circle (equi-spaced-points 20))))

   :hidden-objects ((circle :type 'circle :radius 10)
                    (spheres  :type 'sphere
                              :sequence (:size (length (the points)))
                              :radius 0.2
                              :center (nth (the-child :index) (the points))
                              :display-controls (list :color :blue-neon))))


 (generate-sample-drawing :objects (let ((self (make-object 'test-fitted-curve)))
                                     (cons self (list-elements (the spheres)))))


 @end cartouche 
@end smallexample



 @b{Example image is not generated!}

