@subsubsection Iges-reader

@b{Description}

This object will reflect the contents of an iges file containing
points, curves, surfaces, and/or breps (including trimmed surfaces) as sequences of GDL objects. 

The HarmonyWare reader creates a log file in a temporary directory. The location of this log
file is printed on the console during the reading operation. Currently this log file is
not automatically deleted, and its name is determined by the system.



@noindent @b{Required-input-slots}

@b{:file-name}

@itemize {}

 @item String or pathname. The location of the IGES file to be read.

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Optional-input-slots}

@b{:group-trimmed-surfaces-into-brep?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. If true, group all trimmed surfaces in the file into one B-rep.  
If some trimmed surfaces are blanked, they are grouped into a second, blanked B-rep. Default is nil.

@end itemize

@b{:make-all-surfaces-trimmed?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. If true, treat all untrimmed surfaces in the file as if they are trimmed surfaces with 
the natural outer boundary of the surface as the trimming loop.  If used, no standalone IwSurface surface objects 
will ever be returned by the reader.  Default is nil.

@end itemize

@b{:make-single-brep?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. If true, group all trimmed surfaces and B-reps in the file into one B-rep.  
If some trimmed surfaces or B-reps are blanked, they are grouped into a second, blanked B-rep. Default is nil.

@end itemize

@b{:sew-brep-faces?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. Indicates whether each resulting brep should have its faces sewn together. Default is (the make-single-brep?).

@end itemize



@noindent @b{Quantified-objects}

@b{:breps}

@itemize {}

 @item Sequence of GDL brep objects. The breps and trimmed surfaces (represented as breps) found in the IGES file.

@end itemize

@b{:curves}

@itemize {}

 @item Sequence of GDL curve objects. The curves found in the IGES file.

@end itemize

@b{:points}

@itemize {}

 @item Sequence of GDL point objects. The points found in the IGES file.

@end itemize

@b{:surfaces}

@itemize {}

 @item Sequence of GDL surface objects. The untrimmed ``standalone'' surfaces found in the IGES file.

@end itemize







 @b{Example image is not generated!}

