@subsubsection Iso-curve

@b{Description}

Represents an exact iso curve on the given surface in given direction at given parameter value.

@noindent @b{Required-input-slots}

@b{:parameter}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. The u or v will be fixed at this value. 
This should be between the min and max values for the surface in the given direction. Note that
you can check the min and max for a surface with (the u-min), (the u-max), (the v-min), or (the v-max).

@end itemize

@b{:surface}

@itemize {}

 @item GDL object of type surface. The surface on which you want an iso curve.

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Optional-input-slots}

@b{:fixed-parameter}

@itemize {}

 @item Keyword symbol, one of :u or :v. This is the parameter direction which will be fixed to the 
parameter value given.

Default is :u.

@end itemize

@b{:u-or-v}

@itemize {}

 @item Keyword symbol, one of :u or :v. This is the direction of the iso-curve. The other parameter will 
 be fixed on the surface at the given parameter value. 

:note The name of this input-slot is somewhat anti-intuitive. If you want to 
specify the U parameter, you give :v here, and if you want to specify 
the V parameter, you give :u here. For an intuitive input which matches
the parameter value that you are giving, use fixed-parameter instead of this input-slot.

Default is (ecase (the fixed-parameter) (:u :v) (:v :u)).

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Computed-slots}

@b{:on-surfaces}

@itemize {}

 @item List of GDL surfaces. For iso curve, this will contain the single surface on which the iso curve lies.

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Hidden-objects}

@b{:uv-curve}

@itemize {}

 @item 

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Examples}

@smallexample 
@cartouche
 (in-package :gdl-user)

 (define-object iso-curve-example (base-object)
   :computed-slots
   ((parameter 0.5))
  
   :objects
   ((surface :type 'surf::test-b-spline-surface)
    (iso-curve :type 'iso-curve
               :strings-for-display "Iso at 0.5"
               :display-controls (list :color :red :line-thickness 3)
               :surface (the surface)
               :parameter (the parameter))))


  (generate-sample-drawing :object-roots (list (make-object 'iso-curve-example))
                           :projection-direction (getf *standard-views* :trimetric))

                  
 @end cartouche 
@end smallexample



 @b{Example image is not generated!}

