@subsubsection Joined-surfaces

@b{Description}

This  routine joins two surfaces at a common boundary. The surfaces must already be compatible in the direction of the common boundary (same knots). If the surfaces are not compatible you can use first compatible-surfaces if applicable

@noindent @b{Required-input-slots}

@b{:other-surface}

@itemize {}

 @item Gdl surface object. The second surface to be joined . Its u-min or v-min lays at the common boundary.

@end itemize

@b{:surface}

@itemize {}

 @item Gdl surface object. The first surface to be joined. Its u-max or v-max lays at the common boundary.

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Optional-input-slots}

@b{:direction}

@itemize {}

 @item Keyword symbol, one of :u or :v. If :u the common boundary is for first surface u-max and for the second surface u-min. Surfaces must already be compatible in the u-direction. If :v the common boundary is for first surface v-max and for the second surface v-min. Surfaces must already be compatible in the v-direction. Default is :u. 

@end itemize

@b{:tolerance}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. This is a tolerance used for Knot removal.  The knot corresponding to the merged boundary has multiplicity equal to the degree. Knot removal will be attempted using this tolerance. Default is *3d-tolerance-default*

@end itemize



@noindent @b{Examples}

@smallexample 
@cartouche

 (in-package :gdl-surf-user)

 (define-object join-surfaces-test (base-object) 

   :computed-slots ((surface-list (list (the surf-A) (the surf-B))))
  
   :objects
   ((surf-A :type 'rectangular-surface
            :display-controls (list :color :green-spring-medium)
            :length 10
            :width 10 )
                                        
    (surf-B :type 'rectangular-surface
            :display-controls (list :color :red)
            :center (make-point 10 0 0 )
            :length 10
            :width 10 )
   
    (join-A-and-B :type 'joined-surfaces
                  :display-controls (list :line-thickness 2)
                  :surface (the surf-A)
                  :other-surface (the surf-B))))


 (generate-sample-drawing :object-roots (list (the-object (make-object 'join-surfaces-test) 
                                               join-A-and-B)))
 

@end cartouche 
@end smallexample




 @b{Example image is not generated!}

