@subsubsection Planar-offset-curve

@b{Description}

Creates a curve which is the result of offsetting a curve by its normals along a plane.

@noindent @b{Required-input-slots}

@b{:curve-in}

@itemize {}

 @item GDL Curve. The curve to be offset

@end itemize

@b{:distance}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. The left-hand distance to offset with respect to curve direction. To get the opposite 
 direction, you can either negate this number or reverse the plane-normal.

@end itemize

@b{:plane-normal}

@itemize {}

 @item 3D Vector. The normal for the plane

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Optional-input-slots}

@b{:tolerance}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. The tolerance for approximating the resulting offset curve. 
Defaults to *3d-approximation-tolerance-default*.

@end itemize



@noindent @b{Examples}

@smallexample
 
 (in-package :surf)

 (define-object test-planar-offset-curve ()
  :computed-slots
  ((curve-in (the b-spline-curves (curves 3)))
   
   (plane-normal (make-vector 0 0 -1))
   
   (distance 1) )
  
  :objects
  ((b-spline-curves :type 'test-b-spline-curves
                    :hidden? t)
   
   (curve-to-be-offset :type 'curve
                       :built-from (the b-spline-curves (curves 3)))
   
   
   (planar-offset-curve :type 'surf:planar-offset-curve
                        :curve-in (the curve-to-be-offset)
                        :plane-normal (make-vector 0 0 -1)
                        :distance 1)))

 (generate-sample-drawing :object-roots (list (make-object 'test-planar-offset-curve))
                          :projection-direction (getf *standard-views* :top))

 @end smallexample



 @b{Example image is not generated!}

