@subsubsection Rectangular-surface

@b{Description}

Creates a flat rectangular surface specified by the same inputs as box or base-object.

@noindent @b{Required-input-slots}

@b{:height}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Z-axis dimension of the reference box. Defaults to zero.

@end itemize

@b{:length}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Y-axis dimension of the reference box. Defaults to zero.

@end itemize

@b{:width}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. X-axis dimension of the reference box. Defaults to zero.

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Defaulted-input-slots}

@b{:center}

@itemize {}

 @item 3D Point. Indicates in global coordinates where the center of the reference 
box of this object should be located.

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Computed-slots}

@b{:p00}

@itemize {}

 @item 3D point. Front-left  corner of the planar surface.

@end itemize

@b{:p01}

@itemize {}

 @item 3D point. Front-right corner of the planar surface.

@end itemize

@b{:p10}

@itemize {}

 @item 3D point. Rear-left  corner of the planar surface.

@end itemize

@b{:p11}

@itemize {}

 @item 3D point. Rear-right corner of the planar surface.

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Examples}

@smallexample

 (in-package :surf)

 (define-object test-rectangular-surface (rectangular-surface)
   :computed-slots ((display-controls (list :color :green-spring-medium)) 
                    (length 20) (width 30) (height 0)))
 
 (generate-sample-drawing :objects (make-object 'test-rectangular-surface)
                          :projection-direction :trimetric)


 @end smallexample



 @b{Example image is not generated!}

