@subsubsection Revolved-surface

@b{Description}

Creates a surface of revolution based on an arbitrary NURBS curve revolved by some angle about
a central axis and axis point.

@noindent @b{Required-input-slots}

@b{:curve}

@itemize {}

 @item GDL Curve object. The profile to be revolved.

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Optional-input-slots}

@b{:arc}

@itemize {}

 @item Angle in radians. The amount to revolve. Default is twice pi (a full circle of revolution).

@end itemize

@b{:axis-point}

@itemize {}

 @item 3D Point. The center of revolution. Default value is the center.

@end itemize

@b{:axis-vector}

@itemize {}

 @item 3D Vector. The direction of axis of revolution. Default is the top of the reference box.

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Defaulted-input-slots}

@b{:center}

@itemize {}

 @item 3D Point. Indicates in global coordinates where the center of the reference 
box of this object should be located.

@end itemize







@noindent @b{Examples}

@smallexample 
@cartouche

 (in-package :surf)

 (define-object test-revolved-surface (revolved-surface)

   :computed-slots ((display-controls (list :color :green-yellow2)))

   :hidden-objects ((curve :type 'arc-curve
                           :center (translate (the center) :right 50)
                           :orientation (alignment :top (the (face-normal-vector :rear)))
                           :start-angle (half pi)
                           :end-angle (* 3/2 pi)
                           :radius 10)))

 (generate-sample-drawing :objects (make-object 'test-revolved-surface)
                          :projection-direction :trimetric)

 @end cartouche 
@end smallexample



 @b{Example image is not generated!}

