@subsubsection Surface

@b{Description}

A generalized NURBS surface. 
Usually used as a mixin in more specific surfaces.

@noindent @b{Optional-input-slots}

@b{:brep-tolerance}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Overall tolerance for the internal brep representation of this surface.
Defaults to nil. Note that a value of nil indicates for SMLib a value of 1.0e-05 of
the longest diagonal length of the brep.

@end itemize

@b{:built-from}

@itemize {}

 @item GDL Surface. Specify this if you want this surface to be a 
clone of an existing surface (note - this uses a shared underlying 
surface object, it does not make a copy)

@end itemize

@b{:end-caps-on-brep?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. Indicates whether to attempt automatic endcaps on conversion 
of this surface to a brep. 
Note that this might change in future to a keyword value 
for :min, :max, or :both to provide more control.

@end itemize

@b{:rational?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. Returns non-nil iff this surface is rational, i.e. all weights are not 1.

@end itemize

@b{:sew-and-orient-brep?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. Indicates whether brep representation should undergo a 
sew-and-orient operation. Defaults to nil.

@end itemize

@b{:tessellation-parameters}

@itemize {}

 @item Plist of keyword symbols and numbers. This controls tessellation for this brep.
The keys are as follows:
 @itemize 
           @item :min-number-of-segments
           @item :max-3d-edge-factor
           @item :min-parametric-ratio
           @item :max-chord-height
           @item :max-angle-degrees
           @item :min-3d-edge
           @item :min-edge-ratio-uv
           @item :max-aspect-ratio

@end itemize 



and the defaults come from the following parameters:

 

 (list :min-number-of-segments *tess-min-number-of-segments*
       :max-3d-edge-factor *tess-max-3d-edge-factor*
       :min-parametric-ratio *tess-min-parametric-ratio*
       :max-chord-height *tess-max-chord-height*
       :max-angle-degrees *tess-max-angle-degrees*
       :min-3d-edge *tess-min-3d-edge*
       :min-edge-ratio-uv *tess-min-edge-ratio-uv*
       :max-aspect-ratio *tess-max-aspect-ratio*)

 



@end itemize

@b{:tolerance}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Approximation tolerance for display purposes.

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Defaulted-input-slots}

@b{:isos}

@itemize {}

 @item Plist with keys :n-u and :n-v. The number of isoparametric 
curves to be displayed in each direction. This value comes from the 
value of :isos on the display-controls if that exists, and defaults 
to *isos-default* otherwise.

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Computed-slots}

@b{:bounding-box}

@itemize {}

 @item List of two 3D points. The left front bottom and right rear top corners, in global coordinates,
of the rectangular volume bounding the tree of geometric objects rooted at this object.

@end itemize

@b{:height}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Z-axis dimension of the reference box. Defaults to zero.

@end itemize

@b{:length}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Y-axis dimension of the reference box. Defaults to zero.

@end itemize

@b{:width}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. X-axis dimension of the reference box. Defaults to zero.

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Hidden-objects}

@b{:brep}

@itemize {}

 @item GDL Brep object. This is the brep representation of this surface.

@end itemize

@b{:swapped-uv-surface}

@itemize {}

 @item GDL surface object. This surface object swaps the role of u and v- directional parameters, i.e. old-surface(u,v) = new-surface(v,u).

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Quantified-hidden-objects}

@b{:u-iso-curves}

@itemize {}

 @item Sequence of curve objects. The isoparametric curves in the U direction.

@end itemize

@b{:v-iso-curves}

@itemize {}

 @item Sequence of curve objects. The isoparametric curves in the V direction.

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Functions}

@b{:area}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Returns the area of the surface.

:&key ((desired-accuracy 0.000001) "Number. Desired accuracy of result. Should not be smaller than 0.00000001 (10e-08).")

@end itemize

@b{:b-spline-data}

@itemize {}

 @item List of lists 3D points, List of lists numbers, List of numbers, 
List of numbers, Integer, and Integer. 
Returns six values which are the control points, the weights, the u-knots, 
the v-knots, the u-degree, and the v-degree of the surface.

@end itemize

@b{:curve-intersection-point}

@itemize {}

 @item Surface point. Returns the first point of intersection between 
this surface and the curve given as an argument.

:arguments (curve "GDL Curve object. The curve to intersect with this surface.")
:&key ((3d-tolerance *3d-tolerance-default*) "Number. The tolerance to 
use for intersecting.")

@end itemize

@b{:curve-intersection-points}

@itemize {}

 @item List of Surface points. Returns the point(s) of intersection between 
this surface and the curve given as an argument.

:arguments (curve "GDL Curve object. The curve to intersect with this surface.")
:&key ((3d-tolerance *3d-tolerance-default*) "Number. The tolerance 
to use for intersecting.")

@end itemize

@b{:domain}

@itemize {}

 @item Plist. Returns plist containing :min and :max indicating min and max UV points 
for parameter space for this surface.

@end itemize

@b{:dropped-point}

@itemize {}

 @item Surface point. Returns the given 3D point dropped normally to this 
surface, as close as possible to the given 3D point.

:arguments (point "3D Point. The point to be dropped.")
:&key  ((3d-tolerance *3d-tolerance-default*) "The tolerance used for dropping.")

@end itemize

@b{:dropped-points}

@itemize {}

 @item List of Surface points. Returns the given 3D point dropped normally to this surface.

:arguments (point "3D Point. The point to be dropped.")
:&key  ((3d-tolerance *3d-tolerance-default*) "The tolerance used for dropping.")

@end itemize

@b{:local-bounding-box}

@itemize {}

 @item Returns a bbox object, answering xmin, ymin, zmin, xmax, ymax, and zmax, 
for a box containing the convex hull (i.e. the control points) of this 
surface and oriented according to the given center and orientation.

@end itemize

@b{:maximum-distance-to-curve}

@itemize {}

 @item Plist. The returned plist contains information about the maximum 
distance from this surface to the curve given as the argument.

:arguments (curve "GDL Curve object")

@end itemize

@b{:maximum-distance-to-surface}

@itemize {}

 @item Plist. The returned plist contains information about the maximum 
distance from this surface to the surface given as the argument.

:arguments (surface "GDL Surface object")

@end itemize

@b{:minimum-distance-to-curve}

@itemize {}

 @item Plist. The returned plist contains information about the minimum 
distance from this surface to the curve given as the argument.

:arguments (curve "GDL Curve object")

@end itemize

@b{:minimum-distance-to-surface}

@itemize {}

 @item Plist. The returned plist contains information about the minimum 
distance from this surface to the surface given as the argument.

:arguments (surface "GDL Surface object")

@end itemize

@b{:normal}

@itemize {}

 @item 3D Vector. The surface normal vector at the given u and v values. 
Three other values are also returned:
The 3D point, the U tangent, and the V tangent at the given parameter value.

@end itemize

@b{:offset-point}

@itemize {}

 @item 3D Point. Returns the surface point at the given parameters offset 
along the surface normal at that point by the given distance.
:arguments (u "Number. The U parameter for the surface point."
            v "Number. The V parameter for the surface point."
            distance "Number. The distance for offsetting.")

@end itemize

@b{:on?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. Returns non-nil if the given UV (2D) point lies within the 
parameter space of this surface. Currently
this function works only on the basis surface ; it does not observe 
trimming island or holes.

@end itemize

@b{:point}

@itemize {}

 @item 3D Point. The point on the surface corresponding to the given u and v 
parameter values.

@end itemize

@b{:projected-point}

@itemize {}

 @item Surface point. Returns the first result of the given point projected 
along the given vector intersected with the surface.

:arguments (point "3D Point. The point to be projected."
            vector "3D Vector. The vector along which to project.")

@end itemize

@b{:projected-points}

@itemize {}

 @item List of Surface points. Returns the given point projected along 
the given vector intersected with the surface.

:arguments (point "3D Point. The point to be projected."
            vector "3D Vector. The vector along which to project.")

@end itemize

@b{:radius-of-curvature}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Returns the Gaussian curvature on the surface at the given 
parameter values. Three additional values are returned, which are the Normal 
Curvature at the point, the first Fundamental Principle Curvature, and the 
second Fundamental Principle Curvature.

:note This function might be updated to provide a clearer idea of 
actual radius of curvature; at the time of this writing it is 
      not clear what the relationship is between the four returned 
values and actual radius of curvature.

:arguments (u "Number. The U parameter for the surface point."
            v "Number. The V parameter for the surface point.")

@end itemize

@b{:u-max}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Returns maximum U component of the surface parameter space.

@end itemize

@b{:u-min}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Returns minimum U component of the surface parameter space.

@end itemize

@b{:v-max}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Returns maximum V component of the surface parameter space.

@end itemize

@b{:v-min}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Returns minimum V component of the surface parameter space.

@end itemize







 @b{Example image is not generated!}

