@subsubsection Transformed-solid

@b{Description}

This primitive Translates, Orients, and optionally Scales a brep solid into another brep solid.

@noindent @b{Required-input-slots}

@b{:brep}

@itemize {}

 @item GDL Brep Object. Source Brep to be copied and transformed.

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Optional-input-slots}

@b{:from-location}

@itemize {}

 @item 3D Point. Reference location from which to translate. Defaults to the from-object center.

@end itemize

@b{:from-object}

@itemize {}

 @item GDL Object. Reference Object for from-location and from-orientation. Defaults to the given brep.

@end itemize

@b{:from-orientation}

@itemize {}

 @item 3x3 Orientation Matrix or nil. Defaults to the from-object's orientation.

@end itemize

@b{:scale}

@itemize {}

 @item 3D Vector or nil. Scale to be applied before transform in each axis, or nil if no scale to be applied.

@end itemize

@b{:sew-and-orient?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. Controls whether to do the shrink cleanup step after the tranform. Defaults to nil.

@end itemize

@b{:shrink?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. Controls whether to do the shrink cleanup step after the tranform. Defaults to nil.

@end itemize

@b{:to-location}

@itemize {}

 @item 3D Point. Reference location to which to translate. Defaults to the from-object center.

@end itemize

@b{:to-orientation}

@itemize {}

 @item 3x3 Orientation Matrix or nil. Target orientation relative to the from-orientation. Defaults to nil.

@end itemize











 @b{Example image is not generated!}

