Genworks Gendl is so-called "dual-licensed" software, available under
an open-source license (AGPL) and alternatively under various
proprietary licenses (described below) some of which allow you to
distribute your application and derivative code and keep it as
closed-source, proprietary (Trade Secret) software.

genworks Gendl 是所称的“双轨制”软件，即提供两种授权模式，一种是AGPL开
源软件模式，一种非AGPL商业授权模式。商业授权模式可以保护您的专利权和
商业密秘，也就是享受闭源软件的保护。

开源软件

The Open Source ("free software") license allows your application
to enjoy complete freedom. This license follows the philosophy of
"share and share alike." By choosing this license (or by using Gendl
and distributing a compiled application without making any choice of
license), you agree to distribute your application source code under
the AGPL or a compatible license. 

（“自由软件”）的开源许可证允许您的应用程序享受完全的自由。但是您要遵循
APGL许可协议。此许可协议就是一种授权方式， 人们可以从Genworks 网站自己
获得开放源代码软件资源，并允许自由修改，自由发布相应的版本。


There are no restrictions against Commercial Use
with the Open Source license; the main requirement is that you offer
to share your application code at no cost, just as the Gendl code has
been shared with you.

我们没有对Gendl开源软件加以商业用途的限制; 但在向市场发布前，必须将自己
修改的部分源代码及时返还回社区，而且没有任何付加成本。 就象我们已与您
共享的Gendl源代码一样。

Gendl application or utility code developed with an Open Source-licensed installation
must always remain as Free Software; the Proprietary licenses in
general do not allow for code originally developed on an Open Source
seat to be converted into a closed-source proprietary application
after the fact, using a proprietary Gendl license.  

gendl应用程序或实用程序代码开发与开放源码许可的安装，必须始终保持作为自
由软件;的原本开源座椅开发的代码将一个闭源的专有的应用程序转换后的事实，
一般的专有许可证不允许，使用专有Gendl许可证。

There is an opportunity to overcome this limitation, however: If you have Gendl application or
utility code which was developed using an Open Source installation,
and you wish to include or build upon this code in a
proprietary/closed-source application, you may:

有一个机会来克服这个限制，但是如果你有Gendl应用程序或实用程序代码，这是
开发利用开放源码安装，和你希望包括建立一个专有/闭源应用此代码后，你可以：

1. Contribute the code to the Gendl project under our standard
Contributor's Agreement, sharing with Genworks the copyright to any
original work. After suitable review, Genworks may choose to include
the code either in the mainline Gendl codebase, or in a "contrib"
directory;

1. 贡献代码的Gendl项目，根据我们的标准所提供的协议，与Genworks分
享任何原创作品的版权。经过适当的审查，的Genworks可以选择包括在的主线
Gendl的codebase，或在“的contrib”目录代码;

2. Purchase an appropriate proprietary Gendl license;

2. 购买一个适当的的专有Gendl许证;

3. Freely include the contributed code in your distributed closed-source applications.

3. 自由包括在分布式闭源应用的贡献代码。

评价

The Evaluation license provides a fully-functional, time-limited
Common Lisp engine configured to load Gendl from its source code on
startup. By using the Evaluation license, you agree to both the "share
and share alike" terms of the AGPL Open Source license, as well as the
"No Commercial Use" and other terms of theEvaluation license. The
Evaluation license may be renewed a reasonable number of times while a
purchase or Open Source decision is being made. After a successful
Trial period with the Evaluation license, a request may be made to add
the SMLib geometry kernel to an extended Evaluation period. 

评估许可证提供一个全功能的，有时间限制的Common Lisp的发动机配置，其源代码在启动时
加载的Gen​​dl。通过使用评估许可证，您同意“的份额和占有率都”的AGPL开源许可
证，以及“商业用途”和对theEvaluation许可的其他条款。评估许可证可续期合理
数量的时间，而正在购买或开源决定。一个成功的试用期评估许可证后，可以请
求作出，添加SMLib的几何内核扩展的评估期。

学生

The Student license is valid for one year from date of initiation
(renewable each year at current prices), and is intended for
undergraduate Students as a learning tool and to peform
coursework. Student-level licensing is not authorized for use on
University-sanctioned or government/industry sponsored research
projects. The software package designed for the Student level License
provides a fully-functional Common Lisp engine configured to load
Gendl from its source code on startup. By using the Student license,
you agree to both the "share and share alike" terms of the AGPL Open
Source license, as well as the "No Commercial Use" terms of the
Evaluation license. The Student license also qualifies to have the
SMLib geometry kernel added as an option.


学生版许可证有效期为一年，从开始之日起（按当年价格计算年可再生每个），目
的是作为一种学习工具，并有为，课程的本科生。学生级许可没有被授权使用大
学认可或政府/工业界资助的研究项目。学生水平许可软件包的设计提供一个全功
能的配置，其源代码在启动时加载的Gen​​dl Common Lisp的发动机。通过使用学生
证，你同意“的份额和占有率都”的AGPL开源许可证，以及“商业使用”评估许可证
的条款。学生证也有资格，有SMLib几何内核，作为一个选项添加。

专业的


The Professional License is intended for use in the early phases of
proprietary application development. It does not include the
capability to generate runtime application distributions. The
Professional Edition may also be appropriate for providing additional
Development seats within an organization or department which already
has at least one Enterprise seat. Gendl source code developed with
Professional Edition may be distributed as proprietary, closed-source
compiled binaries (so-called "fasl" files) for use on licensed
installations of Gendl Runtime.


职业资格证书的目的是为使用专有的应用程序开发的早期阶段。它不包括生成运
行的应用程序分布的能力。专业版，也可能是适当的提供额外的开发已经有至少
有一个企业席位的机构或部门内席位。专业版开发gendl的源代码可以分布专有，
封闭源代码编译为二进制文件（即所谓的“FASL”档案）在持牌Gendl运行安装使用。

The Professional license is a perpetual Gendl license; from date of
initiation, you may continue to develop and distribute closed-source
compiled files, with the initiated Gendl version, into perpetuity. As
an option you may renew maintenance and support on an annual basis for
25% of the initiation price for Gendl-related components and support,
and 50% for SMLib-related components.

专业执照是一个永久Gendl许可证;从开始之日起，您可能会继续开发和分发封闭
源代码编译的文件，与发起Gendl版本，到永远。作为一个选项，您可能会延续每
年为启动Gendl相关的组件和支持，50％SMLib相关的组件价格的25％的基础上维
护和支持。

企业

The Enterprise License Enterprise license allows all uses provided by
the Professional license, with the additional ability to generate
closed-source, proprietary, self-contained Runtime applications. These
Runtime applications may be used free of charge in

企业许可证的企业许可证，允许所有使用提供额外的能力产生闭源的，专有的，
自足运行的应用程序，由专业牌照。这些运行时应用程序可以免费使用

1. Noncommercial deployments (e.g. for testing and demonstration purposes)
1. 非商业性部署（例如用于测试和演示目的）

2. In Academic (e.g. University research lab) settings.

2. 在学术（如大学的研究实验室）的设置。

For commercial closed-source runtime deployments, Gendl Runtime
licenses are available under a flat-fee, internal model or a
percentage-based VAR distribution model.

对于闭源的商业运行部署，Gendl运行许可证下的固定费用，内部模型或百分
比基于VAR的分布模型。

Professional license is a perpetual Gendl license; from date of
initiation, you may continue to develop and distribute closed-source
compiled files, with the initiated Gendl version, into perpetuity. In
order to generate closed-source self-contained Runtime applications,
your Gendl Enterprise license must be paid-up with maintenance on an
annual basis, at a price of 25% of the initiation price for
Gendl-related components, and 50% for SMLib-related components.

专业执照是一个永久Gendl许可证;从开始之日起，您可能会继续开发和分发封闭
源代码编译的文件，与发起Gendl版本，到永远。为了生成闭源自足运行的应用程
序，您的Gendl企业许可证必须缴足维修每年的基础上，在的为Gendl相关组件的
起始价格25％的价格，50％为SMLib相关的组件。

学术定价

As our investment in the future, and in the possible improvement of
Gendl from research results, Genworks offers a 50% discount for most
Gendl components for use in Academic institutions. Academic settings
which qualify for Academic pricing include:

作为我们的投资在未来，可能改善的研究成果Gendl中，Genworks提供了一个在学
术机构中使用的最Gendl组件50％的折扣。学术环境，学术定价资格包括：

1. Academic Institutions of higher learning (i.e. Universities)
1. 高校（即大学）的学术机构

2. Government research laboratories
2. 政府研究实验室

3. Government/Industry/University collaborative research consortia
3. 政府/工业/大学合作研究财团

Furthermore, Runtime applications in an Academic setting (generated
from an Enterprise-level licensed Gendl seat) are by definition
non-commercial, and can therefore be deployed free of charge without
limit. 

此外，在学术环境中（从一个企业级的的持牌Gendl座位）的应用程序运
行时定义非商业，因此，可以免费无限制部署。

生成应用程序开发的实用工具版权所有©2012 Genworks国际。保留所有权利。
