@subsubsection Linear-dimension

@b{Description}

Creates a dimension along either the horizontal, vertical, or an arbitray axis. Use
@i{horizontal-dimension}, @i{vertical-dimension}, or @i{parallel-dimension}, respectively, to achieve these.

@noindent @b{Required-input-slots}

@b{:base-plane-normal}

@itemize {}

 @item Must be specified in the subclass except for angular

@end itemize

@b{:end-point}

@itemize {}

 @item 3D Point. Actual point where the dimension will stop measuring

@end itemize

@b{:leader-direction-1-vector}

@itemize {}

 @item Must be specified in the subclass except for angular

@end itemize

@b{:leader-direction-2-vector}

@itemize {}

 @item Must be specified in the subclass except for angular

@end itemize

@b{:start-point}

@itemize {}

 @item 3D Point. Actual point where the dimension will start measuring

@end itemize

@b{:witness-direction-vector}

@itemize {}

 @item Must be specified in the subclass except for angular

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Optional-input-slots}

@b{:arrowhead-length}

@itemize {}

 @item Length (from tip to tail) of arrowhead glyph. Defaults to twice the arrowhead-width

@end itemize

@b{:arrowhead-style}

@itemize {}

 @item Keyword Symbol. Style for arrowhead on end of leader-line. Currently supported values
are :none, :wedge  (the Default), and :double-wedge.

@end itemize

@b{:arrowhead-style-2}

@itemize {}

 @item Keyword Symbol. Style for arrowhead on end of leader-line. Currently supported values
are :none (the Default), :wedge, and :double-wedge.

@end itemize

@b{:arrowhead-width}

@itemize {}

 @item Width of arrowhead glyph. Defaults to half the character-size.

@end itemize

@b{:character-size}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Size (glyph height) of the label text, in model units. Defaults to 1.

@end itemize

@b{:dim-text}

@itemize {}

 @item String. Determines the text which shows up as the dimension label. Defaults to the dim-value, 
which is computed specially in each specific dimension type.

@end itemize

@b{:dim-text-bias}

@itemize {}

 @item Keyword symbol, :start, :end, or :center. Indicates where to position the text in the case when
     @b{outside-leaders?}  is non-nil. Defaults to :center

@end itemize

@b{:dim-text-start}

@itemize {}

 @item 3D Point. Determines where the text will start. Defaults to halfway between start-point 
and end-point.

@end itemize

@b{:dim-text-start-offset}

@itemize {}

 @item 3D Vector (normally only 2D are used). 
The dim-text-start is offset by this vector, in model space. Defaults to #(0.0 0.0 0.0)

@end itemize

@b{:dim-value}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. 2D distance relative to the base-plane-normal. Can be over-ridden in the subclass

@end itemize

@b{:dxf-font}

@itemize {}

 @item String. This names the DXF font for this general-note. Defaults to (the font).

@end itemize

@b{:dxf-offset}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. The start of text will be offset by this amount for DXF output. Default is 2.

@end itemize

@b{:dxf-size-ratio}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. The scale factor for DXF character size vs PDF character size. Default is 0.8

@end itemize

@b{:dxf-text-x-scale}

@itemize {}

 @item Number in Percentage. Adjusts the character width for DXF output. Defaults to the text-x-scale.

@end itemize

@b{:flip-leaders?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. Indicates which direction the witness lines should take from the start and end points. The Default is NIL,
  which indicates :rear (i.e. ``up'') for horizontal-dimensions and :right for vertical-dimensions

@end itemize

@b{:font}

@itemize {}

 @item String naming a standard PDF font. Font for the label text. Defaults to "Helvetica"

@end itemize

@b{:full-leader-line-length}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Indicates the length of the full leader when outside-leaders? is nil. This defaults to nil,
 which indicates that the full-leader's length should be auto-computed based on the given start-point and end-point.

@end itemize

@b{:justification}

@itemize {}

 @item Keyword symbol, :left, :right, or :center. 
     For multi-line dim-text, this justification is applied.

@end itemize

@b{:leader-1?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. Indicates whether the first (or only) leader line should be displayed. The Default is T

@end itemize

@b{:leader-2?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. Indicates whether the second leader line should be displayed. The Default is T

@end itemize

@b{:leader-line-length}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Indicates the length of the first leader for the case when outside-leaders? is non-NIL

@end itemize

@b{:leader-line-length-2}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Indicates the length of the second leader for the case when outside-leaders? is non-NIL

@end itemize

@b{:leader-text-gap}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Amount of gap between leader lines and dimension text, when the dimension text is within the leader.
Defaults to half the character-size.

@end itemize

@b{:orientation}

@itemize {}

 @item 3x3 Matrix of Double-Float Numbers. Indicates the absolute Rotation Matrix used to create 
the coordinate system of this object. This matrix is given in absolute terms (i.e. with 
respect to the root's orientation), and is generally created with the alignment function. 
It should be an @i{orthonormal}  matrix, meaning each row is a vector with a magnitude 
of one (1.0).


@end itemize

@b{:outline-shape-type}

@itemize {}

 @item Keyword symbol. Currently can be :bubble, :rectangle, or :none. Default is :none.

@end itemize

@b{:outside-leaders-length-factor}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Indicates the default length of the outside-leaders as a multiple of arrowhead-length.
     Defaults to 3.

@end itemize

@b{:outside-leaders?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. Indicates whether the leader line(s) should be inside or outside the interval between the start and 
end points. The default is NIL, which indicates that the leader line(s) should be inside the interval

@end itemize

@b{:text-above-leader?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. Indicates whether the text is to the right or above the leader line, rather than in-line with it. Default is T.

@end itemize

@b{:text-along-axis?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. Where applicable, determines whether text direction follows leader-line direction

@end itemize

@b{:text-x-scale}

@itemize {}

 @item Number in Percentage. Adjusts the character width for the dimension-text and currently only applies only to PDF output

@end itemize

@b{:underline?}

@itemize {}

 @item GDL

@end itemize

@b{:witness-line-2?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. Indicates whether to display a witness line coming off the end-point. Default is T

@end itemize

@b{:witness-line-ext}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Distance the witness line(s) extend beyond the leader line. Default is 0.3

@end itemize

@b{:witness-line-gap}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Distance from the start-point and end-point to the start of each witness-line. Default is 0.1

@end itemize

@b{:witness-line-length}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Length of the witness lines (or of the shorter witness line in case they are different lengths)

@end itemize

@b{:witness-line?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. Indicates whether to display a witness line coming off the start-point. Default is T

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Defaulted-input-slots}

@b{:view-reference-object}

@itemize {}

 @item GDL object or NIL. View object which will use this dimension. Defaults to NIL.

@end itemize









