@subsubsection Typeset-block

@b{Description}

Block of text typeset using cl-typesetting. This object
wraps the typeset block as a standard GDL object, so it can be placed in a view and 
positioned according to normal GDL positioning.

You can specify the width, and by default this object will compute its length automatically 
from the typeset content, to fit all the lines of text into the box. Because of this 
computed behavior of the length, the center of the box will not, in general, be in a 
known location compared to the start of the text. Because of this it is recommended
to use :corner, rather than :center, for positioning a base-view which contains
a typeset block. 

In the normal case, if you want a single block in a view on a drawing, you should
make the base-view object have the same width and length as the typeset-block. The
base-view should also probably have :left-margin 0 and :front-margin 0.

@noindent @b{Optional-input-slots}

@b{:center}

@itemize {}

 @item 3D-point. Center of the text. Specify this or start, not both. 
NOTE that the center is no longer defaulting (so that it can self-compute properly when start 
is specified), so it is necessary to explicitly give either start or center for general-note.

@end itemize

@b{:length}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. The length of the box to contain the compiled content. Defaults is (the length-default),
which will exactly fit the compiled content into the specified width. If you override it to be less 
than this default, the content will be cropped.

@end itemize

@b{:start}

@itemize {}

 @item 3D-point. Start of the text. Specify this or center, not both.

@end itemize

@b{:start-line-index}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. The line number to start

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Computed-slots}

@b{:length-default}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. The computed length which will exactly fit the content based on (the width).

@end itemize

@b{:lines}

@itemize {}

 @item List of typeset line objects. The list of lines in the nominal block.

@end itemize







