@subsubsection Base-ajax-graphics-sheet

@b{Description}

This mixes together base-ajax-sheet 
with base-html-graphics-sheet, and adds html-format output-functions 
for several of the new formats such as ajax-enabled png/jpeg and 
Raphael vector graphics.

@noindent @b{Optional-input-slots}

@b{:background-color}

@itemize {}

 @item Array of three numbers between 0 and 1. RGB Color in decimal 
format. Color to be used for the background of the viewport. 
Defaults to the 
 :background from the global *colors-default* parameter.

@end itemize

@b{:display-list-object-roots}

@itemize {}

 @item List of GDL objects. The leaves of each of these objects will 
be included in the geometry display. Defaults to nil.

@end itemize

@b{:display-list-objects}

@itemize {}

 @item List of GDL objects containing geometry. These are the 
actual objects themselves, not nodes which have children or 
other descendants that you want to display. If you want to 
display the leaves of certain nodes, include the objects for 
those nodes in the display-list-object-roots, not here. 
Defaults to nil.

@end itemize

@b{:field-of-view-default}

@itemize {}

 @item Number in angular degrees. The maximum angle of the view frustrum 
for perspective views. Defaults to 0.1 (which results in a near parallel 
projection with virtually no perspective effect).

@end itemize

@b{:image-format}

@itemize {}

 @item Keyword symbol. Determines the default image format. Defaults to the currently selected
value of the image-format-selector, which itself defaults to :raphael.

@end itemize

@b{:image-format-default}

@itemize {}

 @item Keyword symbol, one of the keys from (the image-format-plist). 
Default for the image-format-selector. Defaults to :png.

@end itemize

@b{:image-format-plist}

@itemize {}

 @item Plist of keys and strings. The default formats for graphics display. Defaults to:

 <pre>
 (list :png "PNG image"
       :jpeg "jpeg image"
       :raphael "SVG/VML")
</pre>

@end itemize

@b{:immune-objects}

@itemize {}

 @item List of GDL objects. These objects are not used in 
computing the scale or centering for the display list. 
Defaults to nil.

@end itemize

@b{:include-view-controls?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. Indicates whether standard view-controls panel should be included with the graphics.

@end itemize

@b{:projection-vector}

@itemize {}

 @item 3D vector. This is the normal vector of the view plane onto 
which to project the 3D objects. Defaults to 
  (getf *standard-views* (the view-selector value)),
and (the view-selector value) defaults to :top.

@end itemize

@b{:use-raphael-graf?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. Include raphael graphing library in the page header? 
Default nil. 

@end itemize

@b{:use-raphael?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. Include raphael javascript library in the page header? 
Default nil. 

@end itemize

@b{:view-direction-default}

@itemize {}

 @item Default view initially in the view-selector which is 
automatically included in the view-controls.

@end itemize

@b{:viewport-border-default}

@itemize {}

 @item Number. Thickness of default border around graphics viewport. 
Default is 1.

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Settable-computed-slots}

@b{:js-to-eval}

@itemize {}

 @item String of valid Javascript. This Javascript will be send with the Ajax response,
and evaluated after the innerHTML for this section has been replaced.

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Computed-slots}

@b{:graphics}

@itemize {}

 @item String of valid HTML. This can be used to 
include the geometry, in the format currently selected by the image-format-selector.
If the include-view-controls? is non-nil, the view-controls will be appended at the 
bottom of the graphics inside a table.

@end itemize

@b{:main-view}

@itemize {}

 @item String. This can be used with (str ...) [in cl-who] or (:princ ...) [in htmlGen] 
to output this section of the page, without the wrapping :div tag [so if you use this, 
your code would be responsible for wrapping the :div tag with :id (the dom-id).]

@end itemize

@b{:raster-graphics}

@itemize {}

 @item String of valid HTML. This can be used to 
include the PNG or JPG raster-graphics of the geometry.

@end itemize

@b{:vector-graphics}

@itemize {}

 @item String of valid HTML. This can be used to 
include the SVG or VML vector-graphics of the geometry.

@end itemize

@b{:view-controls}

@itemize {}

 @item String of valid HTML. This includes the image-format-selector, the reset-zoom-button, 
and the view-selector, in a simple table layout. You can override this to make the view-controls
appear any way you want and include different and/or additional form-controls.

@end itemize

@b{:web3d-graphics}

@itemize {}

 @item String of valid HTML. This can be used to 
include the VRML or X3D graphics of the geometry.

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Hidden-objects}

@b{:image-format-selector}

@itemize {}

 @item Object of type menu-form-control. Its value slot can be used to determine the format of image displayed.

@end itemize



@noindent @b{Examples}

FLAG -- Fill in!!!



 @b{Example image is not generated!}

