@subsubsection Base-form-control

@b{Description}

This object can be used to represent a single HTML form control. It captures the 
initial default value, some display information such as the label, and all the standard HTML tag attributes
for the tag e.g. INPUT, SELECT, TEXTAREA. GWL will process the data types according to specific rules,
and validate the typed value according to other default rules. A custom validation-function can also 
be provided by user code. 

Sequences of these objects (with :size, :indices, :matrix, and :radial) are supported.

This facility and its documentation is expected to undergo significant and frequent upgrades in the remainder of GDL 1573 and upcoming 1575.

Current to-do list:

<ol>

<li>
Currently this works with normal HTTP form submission and full page reloading. 
We intend to make it work with AJAX and surgical page update as well.

<li>
We intend to provide inputs for all the standard tag attributes for the accompanying LABEL tag for the form control.

<li>
Additional form control elements to be included, to cover all types of form elements specified in current HTML standard from

    http://www.w3.org/TR/html401/interact/forms.html#h-17.2.1

    <ul>
      <li>button-form-control: submit buttons, reset buttons, push buttons.
      <li>checkbox-form-control: checkboxes, radio buttons (multiple of these must be able to have same name)
      <li>menu-form-control: select, along with optgroup and option.
      <li>text-form-control: single-line text input (including masked passwords) and multi-line (TEXTAREA) text input.
      <li>file-form-control: file select for submittal with a form.
      <li>hidden-form-control: input of type hidden.
      <li>object-form-control: (not sure how this is supposed to work yet).
    </ul>
</ol>


Also, we have to study and clarify the issue of under what conditions values can possibly take on nil values, 
and what constitutes a required field as opposed to a non-validated field, and whether a blank string on a text
input should be represented as a nil value or as an empty string.

Note that checkbox-form-control and menu-form-control currently get automatically included in the possible-nils.




@noindent @b{Optional-input-slots}

@b{:accept}

@itemize {}

 @item String or nil. Maps to HTML form control attribute of the same name. Default is nil.

@end itemize

@b{:accesskey}

@itemize {}

 @item String or nil. Maps to HTML form control attribute of the same name. Default is nil.

@end itemize

@b{:align}

@itemize {}

 @item String or nil. Maps to HTML form control attribute of the same name. Default is nil.

@end itemize

@b{:allow-invalid-type?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. If non-nil, then values which fail the type test will still be allowed to be the value. Default is nil.

@end itemize

@b{:allow-invalid?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. If non-nil, then values which fail the type or validation test will still be allowed to be the value. Default is t.

@end itemize

@b{:allow-nil?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. Regardless of :domain, if this is non-nil, nil values will be accepted. Defaults to t if (the default) is nil, 
otherwise defaults to nil.

@end itemize

@b{:alt}

@itemize {}

 @item String or nil. Maps to HTML form control attribute of the same name. Default is nil.

@end itemize

@b{:append-error-string?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. Determines whether a default error string is appended to string ouput-function for 
html-format (and therefore html-string computed-slot as well). Defaults to t.

@end itemize

@b{:default}

@itemize {}

 @item Lisp value of a type compatible with (the domain). This is the initial default value for the control. 
This must be specified by user code, or an error will result.

@end itemize

@b{:disabled?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. Maps to HTML form control attribute of the same name. Default is nil.

@end itemize

@b{:domain}

@itemize {}

 @item Keyword symbol, one of :number, :keyword, :list-of-strings, :list-of-anything, or :string. 
This specifies the expected and acceptable type for the submitted form value. If possible, the 
submitted value will be coerced into the specified type. The default is based upon
 the Lisp type of (the default) provided as input to this object. If the default is nil,
the domain will default to :string

@end itemize

@b{:ismap?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. Maps to HTML form control attribute of the same name. Default is nil.

@end itemize

@b{:label-position}

@itemize {}

 @item Keyword symbol or nil. Specifies where the label tag goes, if any. 
Can be :table-td (label goes in a td before the form control), :table-td-append (label goes in a td after the form control), 
:prepend (label tag wraps around form control and label text comes before form control),  
:append (label tag wraps around form control and label text comes after form control), 
:table-with-class (like :table-td, but adds a class "form-control" to the table), or
:as-div (puts label and control inside a div of class "form-control").

Default is :table-td

@end itemize

@b{:lang}

@itemize {}

 @item String or nil. Maps to HTML form control attribute of the same name. Default is nil.

@end itemize

@b{:maxlength}

@itemize {}

 @item Number or nil. Maps to HTML form control attribute of the same name. Default is nil.

@end itemize

@b{:nullify-empty-string?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. Regardless of :domain, if this is non-nil, empty strings will convert to nil. Defaults to (the allow-nil?)

@end itemize

@b{:onblur}

@itemize {}

 @item String or nil. Maps to HTML form control attribute of the same name. Default is nil.

@end itemize

@b{:onchange}

@itemize {}

 @item String or nil. Maps to HTML form control attribute of the same name. Default is nil.

@end itemize

@b{:onclick}

@itemize {}

 @item String or nil. Maps to HTML form control attribute of the same name. Default is nil.

@end itemize

@b{:ondblclick}

@itemize {}

 @item String or nil. Maps to HTML form control attribute of the same name. Default is nil.

@end itemize

@b{:onfocus}

@itemize {}

 @item String or nil. Maps to HTML form control attribute of the same name. Default is nil.

@end itemize

@b{:onkeydown}

@itemize {}

 @item String or nil. Maps to HTML form control attribute of the same name. Default is nil.

@end itemize

@b{:onkeypress}

@itemize {}

 @item String or nil. Maps to HTML form control attribute of the same name. Default is nil.

@end itemize

@b{:onkeyup}

@itemize {}

 @item String or nil. Maps to HTML form control attribute of the same name. Default is nil.

@end itemize

@b{:onmousedown}

@itemize {}

 @item String or nil. Maps to HTML form control attribute of the same name. Default is nil.

@end itemize

@b{:onmousemove}

@itemize {}

 @item String or nil. Maps to HTML form control attribute of the same name. Default is nil.

@end itemize

@b{:onmouseout}

@itemize {}

 @item String or nil. Maps to HTML form control attribute of the same name. Default is nil.

@end itemize

@b{:onmouseover}

@itemize {}

 @item String or nil. Maps to HTML form control attribute of the same name. Default is nil.

@end itemize

@b{:onmouseup}

@itemize {}

 @item String or nil. Maps to HTML form control attribute of the same name. Default is nil.

@end itemize

@b{:onselect}

@itemize {}

 @item String or nil. Maps to HTML form control attribute of the same name. Default is nil.

@end itemize

@b{:preset?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. This switch determines whether this form-control should be preset before the final setting, 
in order to allow any interdependencies to be detected for validation or detecting changed values. Default is nil.

@end itemize

@b{:prompt}

@itemize {}

 @item String. The prompt used in the label. 

@end itemize

@b{:readonly?}

@itemize {}

 @item Boolean. Maps to HTML form control attribute of the same name. Default is nil.

@end itemize

@b{:size}

@itemize {}

 @item Number or nil. Maps to HTML form control attribute of the same name. Default is nil.

@end itemize

@b{:src}

@itemize {}

 @item String or nil. Maps to HTML form control attribute of the same name. Default is nil.

@end itemize

@b{:style}

@itemize {}

 @item String or nil. Maps to HTML form control attribute of the same name. Default is nil.

@end itemize

@b{:tabindex}

@itemize {}

 @item Integer or nil. Maps to HTML form control attribute of the same name. Default is nil.

@end itemize

@b{:title}

@itemize {}

 @item String or nil. Maps to HTML form control attribute of the same name. Default is nil.

@end itemize

@b{:usemap}

@itemize {}

 @item String or nil. Maps to HTML form control attribute of the same name. Default is nil.

@end itemize

@b{:validation-function}

@itemize {}

 @item Function of one argument. The argument will be the submitted form value converted to the proper type. 
The return value from this function can be nil, any non-nil value, or a plist with keys :validated-value 
and :error. The following behavior applies:
  @itemize 
  @item  If the function returns nil, error is set to  :unspecified-validation-fail.
  @item  If the function returns a plist with keys :validated-value and :error, and if :error is non-nil, 
it means the value is not acceptable, the form-controls error message is set to this error (usually a keyword symbol),
and the error string will be appended to the html-string by default. 
  @item  If the function returns any other value, then the properly typed submitted form value is considered valid and is used. 
 
@end itemize 



 In the case of an error, the form-control's failed-value message is set to the properly typed submitted form value. If
 allow-invalid? is non-nil, then the form-control's value message is also set to this value (i.e. the invalid value is
 still accepted, even though a non-nil error is present).

 Default is (list :validated-value value :error nil).

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Settable-computed-slots}

@b{:error}

@itemize {}

 @item String or error object. This will be set to a validation error if any, 
and cleared when the error is gone.

@end itemize

@b{:failed-value}

@itemize {}

 @item Lisp value. The value which was attempted to be set but failed validation.

@end itemize

@b{:value}

@itemize {}

 @item Lisp value. The current value of this form control.

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Functions}

@b{:restore-defaults!}

@itemize {}

 @item Void. Restores the default for the value, the failed-value, and the error.

@end itemize

@noindent @b{Examples}


@smallexample 
@cartouche

 (in-package :gwl-user)


 (define-object test-form (base-html-sheet)
  
   :objects
   ((username :type 'text-form-control
              :size 35
              :maxlength 30
              :allow-nil? t
              :default "Ron Paul")
   
    (age :type 'text-form-control
         :size 5
         :validation-function #'(lambda(input) (or (null input) (> 80 input 70)))
         :domain :number
         ;;:default 72
         :default nil
         )
   
    (bio :type 'text-form-control
         :rows 8
         :size 120
         :default "
Congressman Ron Paul is the leading advocate for freedom in our nation's capital. 
As a member of the U.S. House of Representatives, Dr. Paul tirelessly works for limited 
constitutional government, low taxes, free markets, and a return to sound monetary policies. 
He is known among his congressional colleagues and his constituents for his consistent 
voting record. Dr. Paul never votes for legislation unless the proposed measure is expressly 
authorized by the Constitution. In the words of former Treasury Secretary William Simon, 
Dr. Paul is the one exception to the Gang of 535 on Capitol Hill.")
   
    (issues :type 'menu-form-control
            :choice-list (list "Taxes" "Health Care" "Foreign Policy")
            :default "Taxes"
            :multiple? t)
   
    (color :type 'menu-form-control
           :size 7
           :choice-plist (list :red "red" :green "green" :blue "blue" :magenta "magenta" :cyan "cyan" :yellow "yellow" :orange "orange")
           :validation-function #'(lambda(color)
                                    (if (intersection (ensure-list color) (list :yellow :magenta))
                                        (list :error :disallowed-color-choice)
                                      t))
           ;;:append-error-string? nil
           :multiple? t
           :default :red
           ;;:onchange "alert('hey now');"
           )
   
    (early-riser? :type 'checkbox-form-control
                  :default nil)
   
   
   
    (favorite-links :type 'text-form-control
                    :sequence (:size 3)
                    :size 70
                    :default "http://")))


 (define-lens (html-format test-form)()
   :output-functions
   ((main-sheet
     ()
     (with-html-output (*html-stream* nil :indent t)
       (:html (:head (:title "Test Form"))
              (:body (:h2 (:center "Test Form"))
                     (the write-development-links)
                     (with-html-form (:cl-who? t)
                       (:p (str (the username html-string)))
                       (:p "(internal value is: " (fmt "~s" (the username value)) ")")
                       (:p (str (the age html-string)))
                       (:p "(internal value is: " (fmt "~s" (the age value)) ")")
                       (:p (str (the bio html-string)))
                       (:p (:table 
                            (:tr (:td (str (the issues html-string))))
                            (:tr (:td (str (the color html-string))))))
                       (:p (str (the early-riser? html-string)))
                      
                       (dolist (link (list-elements (the favorite-links)))
                         (htm (str (the-object link html-string))))
                      
                       (:p ((:input :type :submit :value " OK "))))))))))
                      
  
 (publish :path "/fe"
          :function #'(lambda(req ent)
                        (gwl-make-object req ent "gwl-user::test-form")))

@end cartouche 
@end smallexample




 @b{Example image is not generated!}

